Samus review rpip62 (#293)
rocket-pool/RPIPs: RPIPs/RPIP-62.md

type: Protocol
category: Core
created: 2024-07-25

> requires: rpip-63

Reviewer: ```suggestion
requires: 63
```

Reviewer: I think this should just be the RPIP number for the website to generate a correct link.

---

## Abstract
This proposal aims to improve RPL tokenomics in the short term before the changes of [RPIP-49](RPIP-49.md) can be implemented.

> Minipools can be created without a minimum RPL requirement and at 5% contract commission. A temporary (until after [Saturn 1](RPIP-55.md)) dynamic commission boost beyond this value is introduced. Total dynamic commission starts at 10% for zero RPL staked, and scales linearly up to a max of 14% for RPL staked positions worth at least 10% of borrowed ETH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Minipools can be created without a minimum RPL requirement and at 5% contract commission. A temporary (until after [Saturn 1](RPIP-55.md)) dynamic commission boost beyond this value is introduced. Total dynamic commission starts at 10% for zero RPL staked, and scales linearly up to a max of 14% for staked RPL positions worth at least 10% of borrowed ETH.
```

Reviewer: Definitely an improvement over the current version. Switching it to "staked RPL position" from "RPL staked position" makes it sound a bit less awkward to me.

The cliff for RPL rewards is <explicitly maintained at 10% | removed by extending rewards linearly below 10%> of borrowed ETH.

## Motivation
With the DAO having voted for the Saturn upgrade, the fundamental value of RPL will primarily be based on megapool TVL.
Short term increases in TVL are beneficial for the protocol as long as they can be expected to convert to megapools.
On the other hand, as competition emerges and an equivalent or higher yield is accessible without the need to acquire a protocol token, short-term RPL utility is unlikely to continue to significantly support fundamental value.
Therefore, node operation is made more attractive by allowing minipool creation without RPL < | and removing the cliff for RPL rewards>.
Contract commission for these new ETH-only minipools is kept less attractive than megapool validators under [Saturn 1](RPIP-55.md) to encourage migration once dynamic commission is disabled.

> In the interest of acting fast, this proposal minimizes smart contract changes. The suggested parameter changes can be enacted immediately after the vote passes (though this rpip does require changing the scrub penalty to ETH instead of RPL, which is planned for implementation in the Houston Hotfix as specified in [RPIP-63](RPIP-63.md)). The dynamic commission requires reward tree spec changes, which would be rolled out alongside the parameter changes or shortly thereafter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the interest of acting fast, this proposal minimizes smart contract changes. The suggested parameter changes can be enacted immediately after the vote passes and [RPIP-63](RPIP-63.md) is implemented. The dynamic commission requires reward tree spec changes, which would be rolled out alongside the parameter changes or shortly thereafter.
```

Reviewer: There's also a dependency on the division by zero fix, so maybe just simplify this a bit? Removed the second closing parenthesis.
